next on the webcast we have a profile of
a young man who was breaking stereotypes
he's both a DJ and a rocket scientist
strange combination and he's using both
of his careers to encourage young people
to aim high hello my name is Mark branch
I am an aerospace engineer some like to
call me rocket scientists here at
Goddard Space Flight Center at NASA what
I specifically do is simulate the
electromagnetic environment of space
it's very technical we can control the
amount of radiation that were bombarding
that instrument with over there during
the daytime when I answer the phone a
mark branch when I leave NASA
I'm DJ scientific world renowned hip hop
DJ and this dispositive influence the
guy who who's not just has the title of
a DJ he's actually a DJ two turntables
and a microphone there's actually a
science in DJing you can you can cut and
scratch and the speed the sounds that
you hear when somebody's cutting and
scratching if you do it slow you can
promote certain principles like pitch
and frequency and force and the speed at
which you do it produces a certain sound
I just want to tell you don't be afraid
to be smart nasa pretty much got me to
start talking to kids males and females
to get them more interested in the
sciences everybody in this room it's
good at something we have a saying here
at nasa shoot for the moon okay even if
you don't make it you're gonna be
amongst the stars and the clubs I play
the music that they hear on the radio
and they see on videos every single day
all of a sudden I think a light goes off
in their minds and they say oh well hold
up this guy is actually a rocket
scientist to tell us about that and
that's when I gather that's to me one of
the powerful positive aspects that
hip-hop can bring when I'm here at work
people can't believe that I rock clubs
across the nation when our rocking clubs
across the nation
they can't believe that I'm a rocket
scientist who actually works and sends
stuff into space this beautiful thing
beautiful indeed